>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
let's talk about part 2 of this exercise.
I trust you found that
sufficiently challenging.
[LAUGH] All right, so we said right before
I gave you the exercise that we can
look at things like listSums, value being
passed into isOdd, that's a composition.
So the point-free representation of this
particular function is just the compose
of isOdd and listSum, so let's just
simply write compose (isOdd, and listSum.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
there's our compose utility.
It takes a list of functions and
it uses reduceRight on those functions,
on that list of functions, okay.
So that made some good progress,
we were point-free there.
Let's look at this particular one.
We have something that takes in a list and
then passes that to listProduct.
Does anybody spot using
equational reasoning a way for
us to use a point-free refactoring here?
>> Kyle Simpson: What do we know about the
shape of this function compared to what we
can see about the shape of that function?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: They're both the same, so
what does that mean?
>> Speaker 3: You can
get rid of one of them.
>> Kyle Simpson: If their shapes
are the same, they're interchangeable,
which means we can simply
pass in listProduct.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's good progress.
All right, our final one that we look
at here, we see a function that takes
a value and another value and
it just adds them together numerically.
So it's just doing a numeric addition.
Well, if you looked through
the functions that were provided to you,
we have just such a function and
it's called sum.
So we don't need ostensibly if something
like that was provided to us by a library,
we don't need to define our own,
we can just use sum.
Okay, we definitely have made
some improvement with point-free.
But we still have a bit
of imperativeness here.
Because we are still calling a function,
grabbing its value into a variable,
then calling passing that
to another function and
then passing that result
to another function.
What's it called when we have one
functions output becoming the input of
another function?
>> Speaker 4: Compose?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
a composition right?
Well, we could use compose here but since
these are already listed in this order,
why don't we take this as an opportunity
to practice with the pipe function?
Which again, that's provided to
us down here, we have the pipe,
it's just composed with
the functions reversed.
So let's think about a pipe
call where we're gonna
be passing in a set of functions.
We don't need to be saving these
into individual variables, but
we're gonna be passing these functions.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
there's a problem which is that each
of these is already receiving the value.
And we want the value to come
through via the piping, right?
And what we're gonna pass into
pipe is that nums object.
So we want nums, we want this
object to sort of flow through.
So we don't wanna be passing
it as an argument, but
now we have a problem which is that those
functions are expecting that argument.
If we look at filter object,
filter object is expecting the O,
map object is expecting the O, and
reduce object is expecting the O.
So what could we do with these to allow
us to provide one of the inputs, but
defer the other input to later?
>> Kyle Simpson: What's that called?
>> Kyle Simpson: Currying, so why don't we
use our curry utility, which if you look
down here, the curry utility, the curry
utility takes the arity and the function.
So we're gonna say 2 and
then the function, but
don't miss the fact that I've already
made curry a curried function.
I used curry on itself, so
we don't have to pass them in
as a single set of arguments.
We can pass them in separately.
So I'm gonna say curry(2) and
then pass in this function and
then curry(2) and
pass in this function,
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then curry(2) and pass in this function.
Now ideally, those functions would've
already been curried, and you remember
I said earlier, it seems like a lot of
times we just end up preferring currying.
We sometimes ask ourselves why aren't
all functions already curried?
The more we end up having to
manually curry things, we wonder,
why can't just everybody have
these functions curried?
Okay, so now we have a list of
functions where nums will flow into
this waiting function, whose output
will flow into this waiting function,
whose output will flow into
this waiting function,
whose output will be the number 3886.
>> Kyle Simpson: But there's one final
refactoring that we could do here.
This is good enough,
this is pretty declarative but
there's one final refactoring
that we might be able to observe.
And it's gonna take advantage of the
associativity of composition in piping.
We could observe that, and this would
definitely be true if we had like 8 or
10 of these in a list, is that manually
specifying each one of these functions and
then passing them into pipe
as individual arguments.
That's one way of doing it.
But another way of thinking
about this is that this
particular operation is
itself a data structure.
Each one of these individual values
being passed into a function,
if we think about that,
that's a very repetitive thing.
Where we're doing something and then
doing it again, and then doing it again,
and doing it again, that sort of almost
begs for a list operation to model it.
So the way I'm going to refactor
this is I'll copy that.
>> Kyle Simpson: What we're going to say
is that we could actually do a list,
an array of these functions, if each
of these functions was in an array,
I shouldn't add a comma.
If each of these functions
was in an array,
remember we're looking for
opportunities where we
can use these list operations
to model our programs.
And in some cases,
a program itself is the data structure or
the structure that we
want to iterate over.
So I've got a list of this functions
that I want to pipe together, right?
Each function I want to compose
with the next one through pipe.
So what's does that sound like if I wanna
take two things to make it into one, and
then two things and make it into one,
then two things, what does it sound like?
>> Speaker 5: Reduce.
>> Kyle Simpson: Sounds like a reduce.
So the function, my reducer would
look like an fn, we'll call it,
reducer (fn1, and fn2).
And we're gonna end up calling,
actually let me reverse that,
no we'll do fn1 and fn2.
We're gonna end up calling fn1 and
then passing it into fn2.
And as soon as we realize we're basically
reimplementing the pipe function,
so our reducer is basically just pipe.
But there's one last little nuance detail.
JavaScript's reduce passes to
the reducer more than just what
we've been thinking about, more than
just the accumulator and the value.
It actually passes in four
arguments instead of two.
This is true for JavaScript's map,
filter and reduce,
it passes in additional arguments.
In this case, it passes in as the 3rd
argument the index of the value,
and as the 4th argument,
the original array.
So that function,
if I were to write it out would take in x,
y, z and w, where x is the accumulator,
y is the v.
This would be the index, and
this would be the original array.
It passes in all 4 of those arguments
rather than only 2 of them,
we've been looking at reduces
that only pass in those 2.
So there's a problem here, which is that
we have the desire to pass in a function,
it should only receive 2 arguments,
but it's gonna be passed 4 arguments.
How could we sort of restrict the inputs
to the pipe function to be only 2?
If you recall back to the very beginning
of our course when we were talking about
adapting argument shapes, one of
the adaptations that we talked about was,
take a function that expects some number
of arguments and change its arity.
And you remember we looked at the unary
utility which takes any function and
turns it into a unary.
And we look at the binary utility
which takes any function and
turns it into a binary.
So the final thing that we need to
do is take our pipe utility and
turn it into binary, so
that it can receive just 2 functions and
pipe those together and
just 2 functions and pipe those.
Finally, what is the end
result of this reduction?
It is the function that we have composed
and we need to call it with the nums.